Define fragment identifiers for application/yaml (#38)
ietf-wg-httpapi/mediatypes: draft-ietf-httpapi-yaml-mediatypes.md

and "user agent"
in this document are to be interpreted as in {{!SEMANTICS=I-D.ietf-httpbis-semantics}}.

The terms "fragment" and "fragment identifier"
in this document are to be interpreted as in {{!URI=RFC3986}}.

The terms "node", "anchor" and "named anchor"
in this document are to be intepreded as in [YAML].

## Fragment identification {#application-yaml-fragment}

This section describes how to use

> named anchors (see Section 3.2.2.2 of [YAML])

Author: Sure, this works for now. The intent of the original language was to account for an expected expansion of alias functionality in the YAML spec, which would allow with a document like this:
```yaml
- &foo 
  bar:
    - 1
    - 2
    - 42
```
for an alias `*foo/bar/2` to point at the value `42`.

By referring directly to anchors here, such a later change to the YAML spec would not be reflected in the mediatype's fragment id.

To be clear, pathlike aliases are not _yet_ valid and there's no fixed schedule for when we might get a YAML 1.3 spec out, so defining the mediatype according to current reality is an entirely valid thing to do.

> named anchors (see Section 3.2.2.2 of [YAML])

Reviewer: @eemeli thanks for the insight! Some question then

1. is `/` a valid character for a named anchor? That should be forbidden if `/` is used as a pathlike separator
2. since keys can contain non-string characters, how can I address pathlike such as `*foo/bar/1` ?

```
- &foo
  bar:
    1: "integer"
   "1": "string"
- baz: *foo/bar/1
```

My suggestion, given the encoding issues, is to constrain for now fragment identifiers to named anchors so that we can achieve the actual publication of the spec.

It is always possible to amend the media type registration and the according fragment identifiers interacting directly with IANA.

> named anchors (see Section 3.2.2.2 of [YAML])

Author: >     1. is `/` a valid character for a named anchor? If `/` is used as a pathlike separator, isn't using `/` in named anchors problematic?

Yes, it's a valid character, and yes it's potentially problematic. Not fatally so, though, as preferentially matching the longest substring allows for a deterministic and pretty sensible resolution. I've a prototypical implementation of how this could work here: eemeli/yaml#380.

>     2. since keys can contain non-string characters, how can I address pathlike alias node such as `*foo/bar/1` or `*fizz/buzz/baz` ?

Badly. The resolution algorithm can end up pretty straightforward, but with degenerate cases like this that'll mean resolving one of the possible nodes while making the other one unaddressable via a pathlike alias. But it's possible to attach an anchor to a node, which circumvents the problem. That's also the solution for addressing e.g. nodes that are in a mapping and have a non-scalar key like `{ [ foo, bar ]: value }`.

> If we want to achieve publication quickly, I think that using "named anchors" is easier, It is always possible to amend the media type registration and the according fragment identifiers interacting directly with IANA.

Yeah, that's why I said referring to anchors directly should be ok for now. They'll need to continue working in the future as well, and any changes should just make expressions that currently fail potentially start resolving, rather than changing the meaning of anything that's currently valid.

> as fragment identifier to designate a node.

Reviewer 2: "identifiers" and "nodes" (keeping with the plural)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as fragment identifiers to designate nodes.
```

> A YAML named anchor can be represented in a URI fragment identifier

Reviewer: taken from json pointer RFC

by encoding it into octects using UTF-8 {{!UTF-8=RFC3629}},
while percent-encoding those characters not allowed by the fragment rule

> in {{Section 3.5 of URI}}. 

Reviewer 2: shouldn't that read "referenced" instead of "represented"?

> in {{Section 3.5 of URI}}. 

Reviewer: I wrote  "represent" because the serialization is different from the YAML's one.

If multiple nodes would match a fragment identifier,
the first such match is selected.

> Users concerned with interoperability of fragment identifiers:

Reviewer: I am not sure whether anchor names allows all possible UTF-32, so here we suggest an interoperale behavior.

pyyaml for example only supports `[a-zA-Z0-9\-_]+` for anchor names; I didn't test other implementations.

Reviewer 2: the above snippet looks odd. we're working on a media type registration. the above text seems to define/describe behavior that hopefully is well-defined for the format, and if it's not, then that's too bad but nothing that a media registration should attempt to change.

Author: According to the YAML spec, the allowed characters in [ns-anchor-name](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#rule-ns-anchor-name) is literally everything up to `\x10FFFF` except for:
- C0 and C1 control codes, though the Next Line character `\x85` is allowed
- `\x20 | ',' |  '[' |  ']' |  '{' |  '}'`
- Surrogates `[\xD800-\xD8FF]`
- the BOM character `\xFEFF`

That range is rather silly, and as @ioggstream noted, not supported by all implementations. Sticking to `[\w-]+` is indeed recommended for interoperability.

Reviewer: @eemeli

-  do you think it's worth reducing the possible values of ns-anchor-name in a future YAML revision ?
-  what happens if I have something like `*foo/bar/baz` ?

```yaml

- &foo
  "bar/baz": "a"
  "bar":
    "baz": "b"
```

Author: Yes, reducing the valid space of anchor names is definitely planned. I even wrote up a proposal for it (yaml/yaml-spec#64), but the spec update progress has been a bit stop-and-go-ish.

Reviewer: @eemeli it would be a major improvement :)

- SHOULD limit named anchors to a set of characters
  that do not require encoding 
  to be expressed as URI fragment identifiers:
  this is always possible since named anchors are a serialization
  detail;
- SHOULD NOT use a named anchor that matches multiple nodes.

In the example resource below, the URL `file.yaml#foo`
references the anchor `foo` pointing to the node with value `scalar`;
whereas
the URL `file.yaml#bar` references the anchor `bar` pointing to the node
with value `[ some, sequence, items ]`.

~~~ example
 %YAML 1.2

>  ---

Reviewer: there's a bug in kramdown: it seems it can't process `---` in code blocks. I kludged it adding a space to each line. Alternatively, we could remove the %YAML header.

: HTTP

Fragment identifier considerations:

> : For documents labeled as `application/yaml`,
>   the fragment identifier is parsed as if it were a YAML alias node,
>   but without a leading `*` indicator.
>   For YAML 1.2,
>   this means that it designates a node which has a correspondingly named anchor.
>   If multiple nodes would match a fragment identifier,
>   the first such match is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The fragment identifier is parsed as if it were a YAML alias node,
  but without a leading `*` indicator.
  For example, in YAML 1.2,
  this means that it designates a node which has a correspondingly named anchor.
  If multiple nodes would match a fragment identifier,
  the first such match is selected.
```
